Egypt University of Informatics - Faculty of Computing and Information Sciences Student Handbook



*  Usage of this Handbook
Dear Students,
Welcome to the Faculty of Computing and Information Sciences (CIS). This Student
Handbook is intended to serve as a general guide for current and prospective students.
The Handbook is designed to outline both students’ rights and responsibilities. The
Handbook informs the CIS students of the faculty’s regulations, policies and academics.
We are sure that during your time as a student you will likely have many queries, so we hope
that this brief guide will be of some help. If you have any further queries, you are welcome to
knock the right doors based on your inquiry.
It is safe to say that CIS Handbook is not a static document, neither is it a contract
between the faculty and any party or parties. That’s why we make changes in the
Handbook each year to strengthen our procedures further assist our students with their
continuous needs. Thus, our dear students should be aware of any changes made that
might affect their performance academically and socially.
Admission at the Faculty of Computing and Information Sciences at EUI is considered
acceptance of the standards specified herein.

We hope that your time as a student at the EUI and, more specifically, at the Faculty of
Computing and Information Sciences, is successful and enjoyable.


*  A Word from the Dean
Dear future leaders,
As the Dean of the faculty of Computing and Information Sciences Faculty (CIS), it is my great
pleasure to welcome you all at Egypt University of Informatics (EUI) in general and to CIS in
specific. Now that you have joined the faculty of CIS at EUI, it means you have been qualified
to the next level of your life experience. At EUI, you’ll enjoy every bit of a learning journey
full of discovery and adventure.
On behalf of EUI, I would like to assure you that we are all here to support, mentor and
encourage you during your study at EUI. Our mission regarding education is to provide students
with the highest academic standards and ensure gaining scientific knowledge and professional
titles which are in accordance with the requirements of modern and global job market.
All academic staff members and scholars at the Faculty of Computing and Information Sciences
are leaders in their fields. I encourage you to get to know them, talk to them, ask them about their
research and tell them about your own ideas. They will challenge you, guide you and open doors
to new possibilities, ideas and opportunities.
We are all here to help you throughout your years at EUI by providing a rich array of
opportunities to learn & grow to achieve your dreams and to eventually make a difference in the
world.
Finally, I’d like to tell you about my open-door policy. You’re welcome any time to come and
have a warm chat with whenever you need a helping hand and/or advice.
Prof. Hoda M. O. Mokhtar
Faculty Dean


*  Why Egypt University of Informatics (EUI)?
• EUI is an ICT-focused university in Egypt.
• EUI is a non-profit university, established by the Ministry of Communications and
Information Technology (MCIT).
• EUI continuously seeks to establish dual degree agreements with top universities
worldwide, which will grant students (meeting the agreement criteria) both the EUI
degree and the foreign university degree.
• Quality Education is guaranteed through aligning our program offerings and curricula
with world top universities’ offerings.

Faculty of Computing and Information
Sciences
• The Faculty of Computing & Information Sciences is one of the faculties of Egypt
University of Informatics (EUI) which gives it direct link to the Ministry of
Communications and Information Technology projects and entities existing in the MCIT
Knowledge City at the New Administrative Capital, which can offer specialized training,
internships, start-ups incubation, as well as funding of research with the industry.
• The faculty is unique being a specialized faculty with a full focus on computer science
and related domains.
• The faculty bylaw is carefully designed to meet top computing and information sciences
educational standards.
• The Faculty of Computing and Information Sciences has incredibly talented faculty
members who are leaders in their fields.


*  Vision, Mission and Goals
Vision
To be a leading faculty in the field of computing and information sciences that provides high
quality academics, research, and consultations.

Mission
The Faculty of Computing and Information Sciences is committed to provide high quality
education, and to prepare a new generation of skilled professionals capable to engage in
various computer science related jobs and to develop technology and services that serve local,
regional and international needs.

Goals
- Develop high quality credit hour based academic programs based on creativity, critical
thinking, and problem-solving skills.
- Develop reliable, competitive leaders and problem solvers.
- Provide in-depth understanding of the key concepts and technologies in computer
science.
- Help students gain practical and hands-on experience.
- Be an important contributor to the society through acting as a socially legitimised
institution to produce knowledge and innovation.
- Be a source of expertise and vocational identity.
- Provide cutting-edge research.



*  Program and Degrees
Undergraduate Program
The faculty of Computing and Information Sciences offers one bachelor’s degree program in
“Computing and Information Sciences.”

International Agreements
The faculty of Computing and Information Sciences has the following signed agreements:
1- An undergraduate agreement with the University of Minnesota Twin Cities (ranked #26)
in Computer Science in US News 2021, the Computer Science Program at the University
of Minnesota Twin Cities is also ranked among the top 40 programs worldwide* .
2- A graduate “Professional Master’s Degree in Information Security” agreement
with Purdue University West Lafayette (ranked #6 in Cyber Security in US. News, in
2021)

What is the Agreement with the University of Minnesota Twin Cities?
This is a dual-degree model based on credit transfer. Successful students who meet the
agreement criteria obtain two bachelor’s degree certificates: a certificate from Egypt University
of Informatics and another from the University of Minnesota Twin Cities, USA.


*  How the agreement works?
• EUI students study the first 3 years (as Computing and Information Sciences is 4 years)
at EUI.
• During this period, EUI student will study up to 3 blended courses from University of
Minnesota taught by University of Minnesota specialized faculty with EUI faculty
support. (Blended courses fees are not included in the fees of EUI and will be determined
by the University of Minnesota)
• On the 4th year, eligible students will be able to travel and pursue their final year at
University of Minnesota Twin Cities.
For more information, please contact the admission office admission@eui.edu.eg
Who is eligible for the agreement and how to apply?
To be considered for admission at University of Minnesota, students shall meet the following
criteria:
• A student should maintain an EUI CGPA of 3.0 or above for the course the student studies
during the first 2 years (exclusive of University of Minnesota blended courses)
• A student must apply by the end of the second academic year through EUI to join the
agreement (to attend the last year at the University of Minnesota), subject to the
acceptance of the University of Minnesota.
• Travelling students will have their full transcripts transferred to the University of
Minnesota Twin Cities for credit transfer.
If the student spends the last year at the University of Minnesota, fees for that year will be that
of the University of Minnesota fees and according to the fees determined by Minnesota
University Twin Cities, plus administrative fees to paid at EUI.


*  Our Strategy
To achieve our goals, we follow a 4-step strategy:

1- Prepare
We carefully prepare
our
curriculum,
teaching,
materials
and facilities.

2- Engage
Engage our students into realworld experiences through
training, projects, teamwork,
etc. after acquiring rigorous
understanding of computer
science concepts and theories.

3- Update
Always
update
our curriculum to
match the stateof-art (that’s why
we have tracks)

4- Apply
We help students
transform theory
into practice.


*  Faculty Academic Departments
The faculty of Computing and Information Sciences consists of 4 academic departments that
work together to provide high quality education in the different domains through talented
academic staff and up-to-date courses’ curriculum. The academic departments also conduct
cutting-edge research in their fields of specialization along with interdisciplinary joint research
work with other departments.
The departments help achieving the required organizational structure of the faculty through
providing specialized faculty members. However, all departments participate in a single
undergraduate program “Computing and Information Sciences” with the strength of each
department elaborated in the different tracks offered by the faculty that are further discussed in
the Program Tracks section.
Each course in the bylaw is assigned a Course Code that indicates the department offering the
course.
The academic departments are as follows:

Computer
Science
Department
(CS)

Artificial
Intelligence
Department
(AI)

Data Science
and
Engineering
Department
(DE)

Software
Engineering
Department
(SW)


*  The Credit Hour System
What is the credit hour system?
• The Faculty of Computing and Information Sciences adopts the credit hour system. The
credit hours system gives the student the flexibility in deciding his workload each
semester.
• The credit hour system is based on the principle of giving the student the freedom to
choose the subjects to be studied in order to complete the academic hours required for
graduation.
• The credit hour system is based on 2 main pillars: the courses, and the credit hours of
each course.
• An academic course (also referred to as course) is weighed based on its assigned number
of credit hours.
• The number of hours for a course varies from one course to another based on the
coursework weight and its weight in the program (number of credit hours of each course
are clearly stated in the faculty bylaw).

*  Academic Advising
A key role player in the credit hour system is the “academic advisor”.
• The Faculty of Computing and Information Sciences provides Academic Advising to
support your academic progress toward earning your college degree.
• Each student is assigned an “academic advisor” through the faculty.
• Academic advising is a process by which a faculty member (i.e., academic advisor) at
your faculty provides insight and guidance to a student on academic, social, and/or
personal matters.
• Questions regarding your career goals, study strategies, class schedules, etc. should be
discussed with your academic advisor.


*  The role of an academic advisor
The role of the academic advisor is to help you throughout your study trip at the faculty, for
example:
• Guide you in choosing the track based on your interests.
• Guide you in course(s) selection for elective courses.
• Help you if you have any academic issue or questions.

Key Terminologies in Credit Hour System
• Credit hour: is a unit that gives weight to an academic course taken.
• Compulsory and Elective courses: Electives are courses (subjects) you can choose,
while compulsory courses are mandatory courses that you must study to meet
your program requirements. Both Compulsory and Elective courses count towards the
number of credit hours needed to satisfy your graduation requirements.
• Course prerequisites: A prerequisite means a course or other requirement that a student
must have taken prior to enrolling in a specific course. When you register for courses the
registration system will check that you have met the pre- or corequisite required for the
course you selected.
• A prerequisite is a means of measuring knowledge to determine whether a student is
ready to advance to the next level of their college career. This is important for you as a
student, as enrolling in a course in which you have not met the prerequisite can set you
up for failure and hinder the academic experience for other students in the course.
Meeting the prerequisites ensures that you can easily understand the new concepts.
• Grade Point Average (GPA): is the measure used to summarize your academic
achievement. It’s meant to score your academic performance (usually on a GPA scale
between 1.0 and 4.0) during your studies and shows whether your overall grades have
been high or low. This number is then used to assess whether you meet the standards and
expectations set by the program.
• Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA): It is usually used to measure the overall
academic performance of a student. CGPA is calculated by obtaining the mean of the
GPA that a student is awarded every semester and is divided by the total number of
credits. (Please refer to section Calculating the GPA and CGPA to learn more about how to
calculate your GPA and CGPA).
Letter Grade: At the end of each semester, each students gets a letter grade for each
course he/she finished. This letter grade is another way to represent the student’s overall
performance in the course. Letter grades are usually mapped to the corresponding grade
percentage. (Please refer to the conversion table in the Grading section).
Regular Academic Semesters: The Fall and the Spring are our official regular academic
semesters. Each student should register for courses during those semesters unless he has
an approved excuse.
Summer Semester: A Summer semester is an optional condensed semester. Summer
registration is of an extra fee than regular academic semesters. The faculty council
decides which courses will be offered during the summer and this in turn will be promptly
announced to students.
Course Drop: When a student drops a course from his/her schedule, the course is
completely erased from the student's class schedule. Dropped courses do not appear
on the student's official academic record (which includes their academic transcript) on
condition that dropping the course was done following the faculty course dropping
regulations. Though, if the student drops a compulsory course, he/she must register for
the course before graduation. If the dropped course is elective, the student may register
for the same course or any other elective course in a later semester before graduation.
Course Withdrawal: This option/policy gives an option to students who are struggling
in a course and/or who have become overwhelmed by their circumstances: it lets students
minimize the impact on their academic standing, reduce their course load and focus on
successfully completing their other courses. A student can request a course withdrawal
during a time window specified in the faculty academic calendar that is usually after the
end of the course Drop time frame. Course withdrawn will appear in the student’s
transcript with letter grade “W” but won’t count in the GPA/ CGPA.
Incomplete Grade: An incomplete grade (I) for any scheduled course may be given at
the faculty council’s discretion only to students who have attended the course but cannot
sit for the final examination or cannot complete course requirements due to circumstances
beyond their control. An approved excuse should be submitted before the exams to be
granted an Incomplete grade. If accepted, you will retain your course term work and sit
for the final exam on a later date determined by the faculty council.


*  What is the student role in credit hour system?
Being part of the credit hour system, there are some responsibilities that you are required to
perform throughout your years of study.
• At the beginning of each semester, you are required to register for the courses you want
to attend after consulting your academic advisor. For first year students, the registration
process is done on your behalf by the registrar office.
• Courses are either elective or compulsory.
• To register in a course, you need to satisfy the course prerequisites.
• You also have the right to withdraw one or more courses after the approval of the
academic advisor during the allowed time period that is announced in the faculty
academic calendar at the beginning of each semester.
How is a student assessed in a credit hour system?
• Students are evaluated on a frequent basis through different assessment methods.
• The type and weight of each assessment varies from course to course and is announced
to students at the beginning of the course.
• Assessments include assignments, lab reports, quizzes, in-class contribution, project,
presentations, etc.
• Each assessment is assigned a deadline that is announced to the students. Students are
required to submit their tasks before or on the deadline date, else marks will be deducted
according to course rules.


*  Faculty Rules, Procedures, and Policies
As we follow the credit hour system, the following set of rules, regulations and policies will
be enforced from the faculty throughout your years of study.

General Policies
• Once a student is accepted at EUI he will be given a StudentID.
• Your StudentID is your identity card that has your information and is linked to all your
records at EUI.
• Students are not allowed to enter the exam without a valid StudentID. So please have
your ID with you all the time.
• Once you are accepted, you are part of the Faculty of Computing and Information
Sciences community and family. So please help us keep our faculty safe and clean. And
always take care of the faculty properties, they are yours.
• Students should follow the university Dress Code policy.
• Using mobile phones in-class is prohibited as it distracts both the instructor and your
colleagues.
• Having a mobile phone during exams is totally prohibited and is considered a cheating
attempt.
• Smoking to prohibited in all campus buildings.
• Wearing a face mask is recommended during your stay at EUI and specially in closed
rooms. Always remember that your safety is our priority.
• Students are required to abide to exam rules that are announced before the exams,
deviating from those rules might expose you to legal problems.



*  Attendance and Absences
1- A student should satisfy an attendance percentage threshold of 75% for each course.
2- If a student cannot fulfil the attendance requirements due to circumstances beyond his
control, he is required to present the documents that support his excuse, and his request
will be pending until approved by the faculty council.
3- Students failing to satisfy the attendance threshold will be prevented from attending the
course(s) final exam and will automatically get an “F” grade (Fail).
4- A student who misses the final exam without any prior approved excuse will be
considered “F” (Fail) in the course(s) he missed and should re-take the course again.
5- A student who has an emergency and is not able to attend the final exam is eligible for an
Incomplete grade as long as he satisfies the requirements for an Incomplete grade.
6- A student shouldn’t miss a course exam more than twice (either 2 consecutive times or
separate.

Registering and Dropping Courses
1- A student is required to register for the courses he will attend during a semester at the
beginning of each academic semester. Course registration remains pending until the
student gets approval from his academic advisor. (i.e., academic advisors do guide the
students through the course selection process).
2- A student is allowed to drop a course after registering for it during the allowed time
window and upon approval from the academic advisor.
3- Once you register for the course, the course will be added to your study load and will be
reflected in your schedule.
4- For first-year students, your registration is atomically handled through the registrar's
office, once you get used to the system it’s your responsibility to register your courses
yourself.
5- The add/drop process should be completed within the registration/drop time window
announced by the faculty before the beginning of each semester.
6- When registering for a course you need to make sure that you fulfill its prerequisites.
Figure 1 shows the courses’ dependency graph for the first 3 years as the 4th year depends
on the track and accordingly the electives you’ll choose.
7- The faculty council decides the minimum required number of registered students to open
a course for registration.
8- All registration/drop requests are handled through the Student Information System (SIS)
of the university using your StudentID.
9- All registrations and drop requests remain pending until tuition fees are paid, and course
registration/drop requirements are satisfied.
10- A student can register for a higher-level course(s) as long as he had satisfied the
course(s) prerequisites.

Courses Registration Rules
For the Fall and Spring semesters:
A student can register in a number of credit hours per semester based on his academic
performance according to the following criteria:
• The minimum number of credit hours that you need to register for is 9 credit hours per
semester.
• If your CGPA= 3 or you are in your last semester before graduation, you can register in
21 credit hours after having an approval from the faculty dean.
• If your 3 >CGPA = 2, you can register in 18 credit hours.
• If your 2 >CGPA = 1, you can register in 15 credit hours.
• Otherwise (i.e., 1 >CGPA), you can register in 12 credit hours.
• In addition to the above-mentioned number of credit hours you are allowed to register for
an extra course if you previously obtained an Incomplete grade (I) in that course, and this
is only after faculty council approval.
For the Summer semester:
• A student can register for up to 2 courses upon academic advisor approval.
• If your CGPA = 3, you can register for up to 3 courses upon academic advisor
approval.




* Course Withdrawal
1- A student can withdraw from a course(s) he is registered in during a time window
announced in the academic calendar and upon approval from the academic advisor.
2- If a withdrawal request is submitted on time and is approved, the student gets a “W”
(Withdraw) grade in the course.
3- If a student withdraws a course after the allowed time window with no accepted excuse,
he fails the course and get “F” (Fail) grade in the course.
4- A student who withdraws a course is required to re-register for the course for a second
time if it is a mandatory course.
5- If the course is elective, the student can choose a different elective course as along as he
satisfies the program requirements and upon approval from the academic advisor.
6- A student gets the grade he achieves in the exam of the (re-)registered course.

Incomplete Courses
For the courses with a final exam, if the student misses the final exam:
1- For an Incomplete grade “I”, the student retakes the exam the first time it is open. He
preserves his term work grade and those are eventually added to his final exam grade to
compute his total grade.
2- If the student misses the re-take exam with no approved excuse, he gets an “F” (Fail)
grade in the course.
3- For the same course, the student is allowed to miss the exam at most twice, those could
be either separate or consecutive times. If he misses the re-take for the third time, he is
considered Absent and gets an “F” (Fail) grade in the course.
4- An exceptional third trial could only be given if approval form the university council.



* Courses Re-take
o If a student fails in an elective course, he is allowed to register for another elective upon

approval from his academic advisor as long as he is satisfying the program requirements.
o If a student fails in a course (i.e., got an “F” grade), he should re-take the course according

to the following rules:
- Re-taking a course you failed in (course Grade “F”):
1- The student gets a maximum grade of “B” in his first re-take trial The new grade will be

eventually used to compute his CGPA.
2- All attempts will appear in the final transcripts.
3- A student re-taking a course is required to redo all the coursework, satisfy the attendance
percentage, and sit for the final exam.
- Re-taking a course you passed but you need to enhance your CGPA to avoid academic
probation/warning and program dismissal (i.e., CGPA < 2.0)
1- If the student is re-taking the course for the first time, he/she gets the higher grade he/she
achieves.
2- For any following attempts, the student gets a maximum grade of “B”.
3- All attempts will appear in the final transcripts.
4- There is no limit for the number of courses you can re-take as long as your CGPA is
below 2.0.
- Re-taking a course you passed to enhance your CGPA (i.e., CGPA = 2.0)
1- If the student is re-taking the course for the first time, he/she gets the highest grade he/she
achieves.
2- You have a maximum of 3 courses to re-take for enhancing your CGPA throughout your
study years.
3- All attempts will appear in the final transcripts.



* Drop-out and Leaves
1- A student is considered on leave from faculty if he doesn’t register in a semester with no
approved excuse, and this semester is counted from the number of semesters allowed for
graduation (maximum of 16 regular academic semesters)
2- A student who presents an approved excuse is allowed a leave for at most 4 consecutive
semesters or 6 separate semesters (even if some of them are consecutive).
3- A student can request a leave/drop-out according to university regulations.
4- A student who is traveling abroad as part of an international agreement with the university
is not considered on leave.
5- A student who fails to register during the registration/ addition/ or drop time of a regular
semester is treated as semester withdrawal.

Academic Warnings and Program Dismissal
1- If a student’s CGPA is below 2.0 for any semester (except the first semester), he is issued
an academic warning.
2- A student who receives 4 academic warnings in 4 consecutive regular semesters or 6
separate regular semesters is dismissed from the program. An additional chance could be
grated to the students upon faculty council approval.
3- A student who fails to satisfy the program requirements and is not able to graduate in at
most 16 regular semesters (fall and spring) is dismissed from the program. (Note that
approved study leaves are not counted).
4- Students subject to program dismissal for any of the above reasons is eligible to register
for 2 additional regular semesters and a summer semester to fulfill the graduation
requirements on condition that he/she passed 80% of the total program credit hours and
upon faculty council approval.

Grading Appeals
A student can issue a grade appeal (grades revision) within a week from grades announcement
and on condition that he/she had paid the tuition fees.


* Computing and Information Sciences Program
The Computing and Information Sciences Program is an Undergraduate Bachelor’s Degree
Credit Hour based program offered by the Faculty of Computing and Information Sciences at
Egypt University of Informatics.

Graduate Attributes
A graduate from the Computing and Information Sciences program is expected to acquire a set
of attributes that differentiate him from graduates of other programs. This set includes but is not
limited to the following attributes: (additional attributes are acquired when joining a specific
track).
1. Be able to apply the fundamental theories and principles of computing and information
applications.
2. Be able to integrate and evaluate the computing tools and facilities.
3. Be able to apply knowledge of mathematics, logic, and statistics to the design, development,
and analysis of software systems.
4. Be able to design a computing system - component and process to meet the required needs
within realistic constraints
5. Be able to exploit the techniques - skills and up-to-date computing tools - necessary for
computing and information practice.
6. Display professional responsibilities and ethical - societal and cultural concerns
7. Use - compare and evaluate a range of formal and informal techniques - theories and methods
to develop computing and information applications.
8. Consider and deal with the individual - social - environmental - organizational and economic
implications of the application of computing and information.
22

9. Carry out a work plan with minimal supervision.
10. Communicate effectively.
11. Hold knowledge and skills required by the computing and information industry.
12. Engage in self and life-long learning and research in computing and information.
13. Fulfil requirements of potential employers.

Teaching Language
English is the official teaching language in most of the courses offered by the faculty depending
on the course nature and content. Teaching is English assists our students in their career paths
and aids the students who plan to pursue their studies abroad.

Program Graduation Requirements
To graduate from the Computing and Information Sciences program, a student must satisfy the
following requirements:
1- Passing a total of 133 credit hours in at least 6 semesters (Fall and Spring) comprising 4
academic levels of study.
2- Achieving a CGPA of at least 2.0 at graduation time.
3- Credit transfer will be applied to students who travel abroad through the Agreement with
the University of Minnesota Twin Cities (or any other agreements) on condition of
acquiring a study abroad approval form the faculty council.
4- Transferred credits shouldn’t exceed 50% of the total number of required credit hours of
the program.
5- Passing ALL courses in the program that have “0” credit.
6- Passing the Graduation Project.
7- Finishing the required Field Training during the allowed interval(s).
8- Male students should pass the military training course that is arranged through the
Egyptian Ministry of Defense.


* Grading System
1- The maximum grade for all courses is 100 points.
2- Course grade is distributed between different coursework (assignments, quizzes,
projects, lab, midterm exam, etc.) that worth 60% of the total grade, and a final exam
that worth 40% of the total grade.
3- Points distribution among different coursework activities varies depending on the
nature of each course and is announced to students at the beginning of the course.
4- Course grade is calculated based on the total number of points acquired in both the
coursework and final exam.
5- To pass a course, a student should get at least 30% of the final exam grade. Otherwise,
he gets an “F” (Fail) grade regardless to him coursework grade.
6- A student should get at least “D-” (50% of the total course grade) to pass a course.
7- Grades for courses with 0 credit are as follows:
Grade

Meaning

P

Pass

F

Fail

W

Withdraw

Abs

Absent from final exam without an
approved excuse

I

Incomplete

8- Each course has a Letter Grade and a Point Value that are determined according to the
grade percentage acquired in the course and according to the Grading Scale table
shown in Error! Reference source not found..



* Grade percentage

Points

Letter Grade

?????????? = 96

4.0

A+

96 > ?????????? = 92

3.7

A

92 > ?????????? = 88

3.4

A-

88 > ?????????? = 84

3.2

B+

84 > ?????????? = 80

3.0

B

80 > ?????????? = 76

2.8

B-

76 > ?????????? = 72

2.6

C+

72 > ?????????? = 68

2.4

C

68 > ?????????? = 64

2.2

C-

64 > ?????????? = 60

2

D+

60 > ?????????? = 55

1.5

D

55 > ?????????? = 50

1.0

D-

50 > ??????????

0.0

F

Absent without an approved excuse

0.0

Abs

Incomplete Course

No points until course is complete



* Graduating with Honors
A student in the Computing and Information Sciences Program graduates with an “Honors
Degree” if he satisfies the following criteria:
1- Maintaining a CGPA of at least 3.0 throughout his academic years.
2- Fulfils his graduation requirements in at most 8 or at least 6 regular academic semesters
(Fall and Spring).
3- Never failed in a course throughout his study in the program (Never got an “F” grade).
4- Never had any disciplinary penalties during his study in the program.

Program Courses
Each course in the program has a role and fulfils a specific program criterion.
Each course is assigned a code (Course Code) that identifies the course. The course code is
designed as follows:
1- The code starts with the letter “C” which stands for the Faculty of Computing and
Information Sciences.
2- The second part of the code is the academic department offering the course.
(CS: Computer Science, DE: Data Science and Engineering, SW: Software Engineering,
AI: Artificial Intelligence).
3- Finally, the code ends with 3 digits encoded as follows:
a. Left most digit is the level of the course (1,2,3, or 4)
b. Middle digit is the specialization to which the course belongs.
c. The right most digit is a digit to identify the course among other courses in the
same specialization and same level.

* For example, the course Introduction to Computer Security has the code C-CS442 which is
translated as follows:

C : Course in Faculty of Computing and Information Sciences

CS : Course offered by the Computer Science Department

4 : Level 4 course


Courses Classification
The program courses are divided into different categories according to the National Academic
Reference Standards (NARS) For Computing and Information requirements as well as the
dual degree agreement requirements.
Figure 2 shows the courses classification hierarchy with the number of credit hours of each
category. The figure also shows both the mandatory and elective courses that the student will
study thorough out the academic years in the program.
Samples of the courses in each category are shown, however, a full listing of the courses can be
found in the faculty bylaw available at the registration office at EUI.


Figure 2: Courses Hierarchy

* Program Tracks
The Computing and Information Sciences Program offers 6 specialization tracks from which
students are allowed to select one of the tracks based on their preference, the career path they
wish to join, and the open tracks that satisfy the required minimal number of students registered.
A track in brief consists of a set of courses that satisfy the requirements of a specialization path.
Tracks are selected to satisfy the market needs and to bridge the gap between the academia and
industry. Joining a track entail studying a set of courses that together build the attributes of a
graduate specialized in this domain.
All tracks were carefully selected to match with the courses at Minnesota so a traveling student
can simply continue with his studies without any changes in the approach.
Courses building a track are offered as Electives and a student along with his academic advisor
is required to join the track that matches his capabilities and to select the set of electives that
best suits his course preference.
Offering different tracks has a two-fold advantage for both the faculty and the students. For the
faculty, tracks give the institution the freedom to add or remove tracks based on the market
needs and industry nationally and internationally. From the students’ side, having a range of
tracks ensures that each student can find the track that fits his dreams and capabilities.
Students in the Computing and Information Sciences Program can join any of the offered tracks.
If a student didn’t join a track, he will be considered a student in the “Computer Science” track
which is the general track offered by the faculty. Students’ transcripts will include the track that
the student had studied and fulfilled its academic requirements.
It is important to know that although the academic advisor will help you in your course and
track selection, the final decision is totally yours. Academic advisors just provide guidance and
support, but this is your future, and you are the sole decision maker.
Please refer to the faculty bylaw at the registration office at EUI if you need to know the full listof electives available for the different tracks.



* Office Hours
What are office hours?
Office hours are times that professors (instructors) and teaching assistants schedule outside of
class to meet with students.
Office hours are times when you can meet with your professors and teaching assistants to
discuss the material being presented in class or other related issues of interest you might have.
You can also meet your academic advisors during their office hours.
How to use office hours effectively?
Office hours provide an opportunity for you to meet with your professors and teaching assistants
specially when you have questions about class content, are confused about practice problems or
readings, or want to review a paper or exam.
Office hours give you additional time to better understand your class content and your
professor’s expectations and can have a big impact on your academic success.
Office hours can also be an opportunity to get to know your instructor or teaching assistant
better, especially in online courses and in larger courses.
Office hours are also an opportunity to meet with your academic advisor to discuss your
academic progress and discuss any issues or problems you are facing.
Why attend office hours?
There are many reasons for you to attend the office hours including:
1- Clarify and ask questions about course material: if you have problems understanding
the lecture or solving the problems, you can ask your professor or teaching assistant to
explain the material in a different way or slower, or even give you more examples.
2- Get study ideas: You can ask the professor about the best way to study for a specific
course. He can give you tips that can make your study more efficient and save you time.
3- Ask questions about the syllabus, upcoming assignments, and due dates: If you are
confused with the due dates or the materials that will be taught in the course you can ask
about them.
4- Prepare for an upcoming project/task. If you have an upcoming project or paper,
office hours can be an appropriate place to discuss your ideas and your instructor’s
expectations.
5- Review an exam paper or your grade Many students do not do as well as they expected
on papers and exams. Office hours are an appropriate setting to talk about what you did
wrong, what went well, and how to improve on your next paper or exam. Also, if you are
unhappy with your grade or have questions about why your grade is what it is, office
hours are the appropriate place to talk about it.

Your Schedule
Your schedule is your guide during your day at EUI. At the beginning of each semester, you
will receive your schedule (timetable) that tells you about your daily schedule at the faculty
along with the name of the instructor of each course, the teaching assistant teaching the
tutorial/lab, the room number where the lecture/tutorial will be held, and finally the breaks time.
Your schedule also includes free slots, those slots are free so that you have time to reach out to
your instructors and teaching assistants during their office hours to ask for assistance.
Free labs are also important slots, where you are allowed to enter the computer lab to finish a
task or work on a project or even search for materials for your courses. Figure 4 shows a sample
schedule.

* Academic Resources
Your Textbooks
- Each course instructor recommends a textbook(s) for the students to help them gain
deeper understanding of the course.
- Hard copies of the textbooks is available at EUI library.
- Access to online soft copies of the textbooks is provided to students.
- It is always recommended that you have your personal copy of some textbooks that you
will need throughout your career path. Please consult your faculty members for their
recommendations regarding which books will be useful for you to have.
Learning Management System (LMS)
Canvas is your Learning Management System (LMS) is your main gate to success.
Once you register as a student at the Faculty of Computing and Information Sciences, you will
get an account on the LMS. This account will include all the courses you register for each
semester, your gradebook, along with important announcements.
Each course will typically include the course materials (lecture notes, assignments, lab
experiments, etc.). This is also the location where you will find your grades and monitor your
progress in the course.
All announcements related to the courses will be communicated with you either through email
or on LMS.
It’s important that you always check your LMS for updates and new material uploads.



* Final Words and Tips

We hope you find this Handbook useful, and we would like to end it with some useful words
and tips that would help you during your learning journey and would make your university life
your best time ever.

It’s all about you!
You’ll find below some helpful pieces of advice and tips which will help you shape and develop
your own learning strategies and philosophies:
Time Management: Prepare a weekly schedule that includes time in class, self-studying,
researching, doing activities, practicing sports (if you do), enjoying hobbies and don’t forget to
include sometime with your friends. Being a university student is like having a full-time job, so
several hours of studying and preparation are expected for each class.
Stress Management: Studying can be stressful at times, so regular exercise, adequate rest, good
nutrition, prayer and/or meditation are all helpful ways of reducing stress levels and help you
relax.
Study Skills: Even some of the high school achievers have not yet developed good and effective
study skills. Knowing how to read a textbook, take notes in class, use the library resources and
use those resources efficiently are all areas that you need to develop and strengthen throughout
your years at university. Don’t worry if you don’t achieve all this in your first year. Most of the
skills develop all through your lifetime.
Assertiveness Skills: Speak up for yourself in an assertive and confident manner which is not
aggressive or allows others to take advantage of you. Assertiveness is a helpful skill in study
groups, teams and conflict resolution. It makes your voice heard and respectful.



* Self-Care Skills: Exercise, relaxation and good hygiene are all important aspects of self-care.
Staying healthy is a key important aspect in life. For example, you need to follow all safety
precautions to keep yourself safe during, before and after high peaks of Covid-19 pandemic.
Seeking Assistance When Needed: It is important to know when to ask for help. University
years are the perfect time for learning new life skills, gaining information, and a new way of
relating to our world. Seeking help when you need is a sign of strength and integrity, not an
admission of failure.
Respecting the Rules and Policies: Every community has its own rules and policies, and our
campus is no different. Our rules and policies apply to safety and fostering a positive community
where all students are respectful to themselves, others and the environment.
Displaying Honesty, Integrity, and Perseverance: Learning to incorporate personal values and
ethics into every aspect of life is a significant part of your personal growth and expanding your
experience during college life. Part of the path of integrity is learning how to hold on and stay
committed to goals even when situations are challenging. Plagiarism is totally forbidden in all
university tasks and duties and is considered an opposition to honesty and integrity. Cheating is
forbidden by all means. It would definitely lead to problems that might reach being dismissed
from the university.
Engage in Activities: Keep yourself busy in useful activities and hobbies. Join university
forums, clubs, and sports teams. These are all good opportunities to build good relationships
with your colleagues and professors, develop and discover your own personality and
communication techniques, and more importantly enjoy your time.

Wishing you good luck and a successful learning journey!
